=head1 NAME

pacconf - query pacman's configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 pacconf [options] [<directive>...]
 pacconf (--repo-list|--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Query configuration options from pacman's configuration file.  If no
I<directive>s are provided, the entire configuration will be printed in
a normalized format.  By default, if only a single I<directive> is provided,
only its value will be printed without the option name.  For directives without
a value, the directive name will be used as the value.

The values displayed are the final values as would be parsed by pacman itself.
All default values are set, C<Include> directives are processed, C<$arch> and
C<$repo> variables in repository servers are replaced, and C<Architecture> will
be replaced if set to C<auto>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--sysroot>=F<path>

Set an alternate system root.  See L<pacutils-sysroot(7)>.

=item B<--arch>=I<arch>

Set an alternate architecture.

=item B<--null>[=I<sep>]

Set an alternate separator for values parsed from F<stdin>.  By default
a newline C<\n> is used as the separator.  If B<--null> is used without
specifying I<sep> C<NUL> will be used.

=item B<--options>

Only display global settings from the C<[options]> section.  The C<[options]>
header itself is not printed.

=item B<--raw>

Display unmodified values.  C<Include> directives will be processed, but
defaults will not be set, C<$arch> and C<$repo> variables in repository servers
will not be replaced, and C<Architecture> will not be replaced if set to
C<auto>.

=item B<--repo>=I<name>

Only display directives for repository I<name>.  The repository header is not
printed.

=item B<--repo-list>

List configured repositories.

=item B<--single>

Display only first value of multi-value options.

=item B<--verbose>

Always show directive names even if only one I<directive> is provided.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item Check if color is enabled:

 color=$(pacconf color)
 [[ -n $color ]] && ... # print something in color

=back
