=head1 NAME

paccheck - check installed packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 paccheck [options] [<package>]...
 paccheck (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Check installed packages.  Additional packages may be specified on F<stdin>.
If no package are provided, all installed packages will be checked.  By default
only package dependencies and basic file information will checked.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--dbpath>=F<path>

Set an alternate database path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--sysroot>=F<path>

Set an alternate system root.  See L<pacutils-sysroot(7)>.

=item B<--null>[=I<sep>]

Set an alternate separator for values parsed from F<stdin>.  By default
a newline C<\n> is used as the separator.  If B<--null> is used without
specifying I<sep> C<NUL> will be used.

=item B<--list-broken>

Only print the names of packages that fail the selected checks.

=item B<--quiet>

Only display messages if a problem is found.

=item B<--recursive>

Recursively perform checks on packages' dependencies as well.

=item B<--depends>

Check that all package dependencies are satisfied.

=item B<--opt-depends>

Check that all package optional dependencies are satisfied.

=item B<--files>

Check package files against the local database.

=item B<--file-properties>

Check package files against MTREE data.

=item B<--md5sum>

Check file md5sums against MTREE data.

=item B<--sha256sum>

Check file sha256sums against MTREE data.

=item B<--require-mtree>

Treat missing MTREE data as an error for B<--db-files> and/or
B<--file-properties>.

=item B<--db-files>

Include database files in B<--files> and B<--file-properties> checks.
B<--files> will test for the existence of F<desc>, F<files>, and F<mtree> (with
B<--require-mtree>) files in the package database entry.  B<--file-properties>
will check F<install> and F<changelog> files in the package database where
applicable.

=item B<--backup>

Include backup files in file modification checks.

=item B<--noextract>

Include NoExtract files in file modification checks.

=item B<--noupgrade>

Include NoUpgrade files in file modification checks.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

B<paccheck> determines whether or not to read packages from F<stdin> based on
a naive check using L<isatty(3)>.  If B<paccheck> is called in an environment,
such as a shell function or script being used in a pipe, where F<stdin> is not
connected to a terminal but does not contain packages to check, B<paccheck>
should be called with F<stdin> closed.  For POSIX-compatible shells, this can
be done with C<< <&- >>.
