=head1 NAME

pacinfo - display package information

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 pacinfo [options] (<pkgspec>|<pkgname>)...
 pacinfo (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

If a I<pkgname> is given, information for all packages matching that name in
all databases will be displayed.

If F<stdin> is not connected to a terminal, packages will be read from
F<stdin>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--dbext>=I<extension>

Set an alternate sync database extension.

=item B<--dbpath>=F<path>

Set an alternate database path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--null>[=I<sep>]

Set an alternate separator for values parsed from F<stdin>.  By default
a newline C<\n> is used as the separator.  If B<--null> is used without
specifying I<sep> C<NUL> will be used.

=item B<--short>

Display brief information.  Suitable for printing a potentially large number of
packages:

 pacsift --name libreoffice | pacinfo --short

=item B<--raw>

Display raw numeric size and date values.

=item B<--removable-size>

Include the size of any removable dependencies in installed size.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

B<pacinfo> determines whether or not to read packages from F<stdin> based on
a naive check using L<isatty(3)>.  If B<pacinfo> is called in an environment,
such as a shell function or script being used in a pipe, where F<stdin> is not
connected to a terminal but does not contain packages to print, B<pacinfo>
should be called with F<stdin> closed.  For POSIX-compatible shells, this can
be done with C<< <&- >>.
