=head1 NAME

paclog - filter pacman log entries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 paclog [options] [filters]...
 paclog [options] --pkglist
 paclog (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

If input is provided on F<stdin> it will be parsed instead of B<--logfile>.
Log entries will be displayed if they match I<any> of the provided filters.  To
display the intersection of multiple filters they can be connected by a pipe:

 paclog --after=2015-01-01 | paclog --warnings

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--logfile>=F<path>

Set an alternate log file path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--[no-]color>

Colorize output.  By default output will be colorized if F<stdout> is
a terminal.

=item B<--pkglist>

Print the list of installed packages according to the log.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head2 Filters

=over

=item B<--action>=I<action>

Display package operations.  I<action> must be one of C<install>, C<reinstall>,
C<upgrade>, C<downgrade>, C<remove>, or C<all>.

=item B<--after>=I<date>, B<--before>=I<date>

Display entries after/before I<date>.  If seconds or timezone information is
included it will be silently ignored, allowing output from C<date -I> to be
used:

 paclog --after "$(date -Iminutes --date '3 days ago')"

=item B<--caller>=I<name>

Display log entries from I<name>.  May be specified multiple times.
Case-sensitive.

=item B<--commandline>

Display logged commandline entries.  Identical to C<--grep=^running>.

=item B<--grep>=I<regex>

Display log entries whose message matches I<regex>.

=item B<--package>=I<pkgname>

Display logged actions affecting I<pkgname>.  May be specified multiple times.

=item B<--warnings>

Display errors, warnings, and notes.

=back
