=head1 NAME

pacrepairfile - reset properties on alpm-managed files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 pacrepairfile [options] (--gid|--mode|--mtime|--uid)... <file>...
 pacrepairfile (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Resets file properties for alpm-managed files based on MTREE data.

If F<stdin> is not connected to a terminal, files will be read from F<stdin>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--dbpath>=F<path>

Set an alternate database path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--quiet>

Do not display progress information.

=item B<--package>=I<pkgname>

Search I<pkgname> for file properties.  May be specified multiple times.  If
B<--package> is not specified, all installed packages will be searched.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head2 Fields

=over

=item B<--gid>

Reset file owner group id.

=item B<--mode>

Reset file permissions.

=item B<--mtime>

Reset file modification time.

=item B<--uid>

Reset file owner user id.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

B<pacrepairfile> determines whether or not to read files from F<stdin> based on
a naive check using L<isatty(3)>.  If B<pacrepairfile> is called in an
environment, such as a shell function or script being used in a pipe, where
F<stdin> is not connected to a terminal but does not contain files to reset,
B<pacrepairfile> should be called with F<stdin> closed.  For POSIX-compatible
shells, this can be done with C<< <&- >>.

In order for B<pacrepairfile> to reset a file's properties, the package which
owns the file must have MTREE data.
