=head1 NAME

pacreport - display a summary of installed packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 pacreport [options]
 pacreport (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Generate a report of installed packages including:

=over

=item unneeded packages installed explicitly

=item unneeded packages installed as dependencies

=item installed packages not in a repository

=item packages missing from specified groups

=item missing package files

=item unmerged backup files

=item unowned files

=item cache directory sizes

=back

Package sizes include dependencies not needed by other packages.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate pacman configuration file path.

=item B<--dbext>=I<extension>

Set an alternate sync database extension.

=item B<--dbpath>=F<path>

Set an alternate database path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--cache-dir>=F<path>

Set an alternate cache directory path.

=item B<--backups>

Search for F<.pac{save,orig,new}> files.  By default only F</etc> is searched;
pass twice to search outside F</etc>.

=item B<--group>=I<name>

Display any packages in group I<name> that are not currently installed.

=item B<--missing-files>

Check for missing package files.

=item B<--unowned-files>

Check for unowned files.  See F</etc/pacreport.conf> under L<FILES> for more
information.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F</etc/pacreport.conf>

INI-style configuration file listing paths to ignore when run with
B<--unowned-files>.  Paths which should always be ignored may be specified with
C<IgnoreUnowned> in the C<Options> section.  Paths which should only be ignored
if a particular package is installed can be listed under the section
C<PkgIgnoreUnowned> using the package name as the option name and the path to
be ignored as the value.  All options can be specified multiple times.  Paths
may include shell-style globs.  The installation root should not be included in
paths.

 [Options]
 IgnoreUnowned = home/*
 IgnoreUnowned = proc/*
 IgnoreUnowned = mnt/*

 [PkgIgnoreUnowned]
 linux = boot/initramfs-linux.img
 linux = boot/initramfs-linux-fallback.img

=back
