=head1 NAME

pacrepairdb - fix corrupted database entries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 pacrepairdb [options] <package>...
 pacrepairdb (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Attempt to repair broken package entries in libalpm's database.  Any missing
essential files will be created and the packages will be reinstalled from the
cache.

If F<stdin> is not connected to a terminal, package names will be read from
F<stdin>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--cachedir>=F<path>

Set an alternate cache directory path.

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--dbonly>

Make the changes to the database without actually extracting or removing any
packages.

=item B<--dbpath>=F<path>

Set an alternate database path.

=item B<--debug>

Display additional debugging information.

=item B<--hookdir>

Add additional user hook directories.

=item B<--logfile>=F<path>

Set an alternate log file path.

=item B<--no-confirm>

Assume default responses to all prompts.

=item B<--no-scriptlet>

Do not run package install scripts.

=item B<--no-hooks>

Do not run transaction hooks.

=item B<--no-timeout>

Disable low-speed timeouts for downloads.

=item B<--print-only>

Display the packages to be repaired and the cached packages to be used and exit.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--sysroot>=F<path>

Set an alternate system root.  See L<pacutils-sysroot(7)>.

=item B<--verbose>

Display additional progress information.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Find and reinstall broken packages:

 paccheck --list-broken --files --file-properties --db-files --require-mtree | pacrepairdb

=head1 CAVEATS

B<pacrepairdb> expects all of the packages being repaired to be cached.  Cached
packages that match the name and version of an installed package are assumed to
be the same package.  No attempt is made to validate cached packages.  If
a cache contains a package that does not match the installed package, but
nonetheless has the same name and version, B<pacrepairdb> will blindly install
it, worsening any database problems.

B<pacrepairdb> does not check for leftover orphaned files.  It is the user's
responsibility to locate and handle orphaned files.

B<pacrepairdb> determines whether or not to read package names from F<stdin>
based on a naive check using L<isatty(3)>.  If B<pacrepairdb> is called in an
environment, such as a shell function or script being used in a pipe, where
F<stdin> is not connected to a terminal but does not contain package names to
repair, B<pacrepairdb> should be called with F<stdin> closed.  For
POSIX-compatible shells, this can be done with C<< <&- >>.
