=head1 NAME

pacsift - query and filter packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 pacsift [options] (<field> <term>)...
 pacsift (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

By default the intersection of matched packages are returned.  If a field is
provided multiple times the union of matches will be used for that field.

Combine with B<pacinfo> to display brief package information similar to
C<pacman -Qs> and C<pacman -Ss>:

 pacsift --name pacman | pacinfo --short

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--dbext>=I<extension>

Set an alternate sync database extension.

=item B<--dbpath>=F<path>

Set an alternate database path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--null>[=I<sep>]

Set an alternate separator for values parsed from F<stdin>.  By default
a newline C<\n> is used as the separator.  If B<--null> is used without
specifying I<sep> C<NUL> will be used.

=item B<--invert>

Return packages that B<DO NOT> match the provided search terms.

=item B<--or>

Return the union of matched packages rather than the intersection.

=item B<--exact>

Match values exactly.

=item B<--regex>

Treat string values as extended case-insensitive regular expressions.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head2 Filters

Filters limit the initial set of packages to be searched.  They may not be used
if packages are provided on F<stdin> and they are not affected by B<--invert>
or B<--or>.

=over

=item B<--local>

Search locally installed packages.  Similar to:
 pacsift --repo=local

=item B<--sync>

Search packages in sync databases.  Similar to:
 pacsift --invert --repo=local

=item B<--cache> (B<EXPERIMENTAL>)

Search packages in cache directories.

=back

=head2 String Fields

By default string fields will use a case-insensitive substring search.  If
B<--exact> is used string fields must match I<val> exactly.  If C<--regex> is
used I<val> will be used as an extended case-insensitive regular expression.

=over

=item B<--repo>=I<val>

=item B<--name>=I<val>

=item B<--base>=I<val>

=item B<--description>=I<val>

=item B<--packager>=I<val>

=item B<--group>=I<val>

=item B<--owns-file>=I<val>

File paths must match the package database; no attempt is made to resolve the
provided path.  May be used with B<realpath> or B<which> to more easily search
for the owner of installed files:

 pacsift --local --owns-file="$(which pacsift)"

=item B<--license>=I<val>

=item B<--url>=I<val>

=back

=head2 Dependency Fields

Dependencies may be specified in the format C<< <pkgname>[<cmp><version] >>.
C<cmp> may be any of the following: C<=>, C<< < >>, C<< <= >>, C<< > >>,
C<< >= >>.  If C<version> is provided the package dependency must be an exact
match to the search term.  If C<version> is omitted only C<pkgname> will be
compared unless B<--exact> is used.  If C<--exact> is used and C<version> is
not provided only dependencies with no version specified will be matched.

Dependency fields are not affected by B<--regex>.

=over

=item B<--provides>

=item B<--conflicts>

=item B<--replaces>

=item B<--depends>

=back

=head2 Size Fields

Size fields may be prefixed with any of the following comparisons: C<=>, C<!=>,
C<< < >>, C<< <= >>, C<< > >>, C<< >= >>.  If no comparison is provided C<=>
will be used.  The size may be followed by abbreviated unit.  Units are
case-sensitive.

=over

=item B<--size>

=item B<--installed-size>

=item B<--download-size>

=back

=head2 Date Fields

Date fields may be prefixed with any of the following comparisons: C<=>, C<!=>,
C<< < >>, C<< <= >>, C<< > >>, C<< >= >>.  If no comparison is provided C<=>
will be used.  Dates may be provided as seconds since the epoch or any of the
following C<strptime> formats: C<%Y-%m-%d>, C<%Y-%m-%d %H:%M>,
C<%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S>.

=over

=item B<--install-date>

=item B<--build-date>

=back

=head2 Other

=over

=item B<--satisfies>=I<dependency>

Search for packages that satisfy I<dependency>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item Find broken packages:

 pacsift --packager allan

=item Find large installed packages:

 pacsift --local --size '>1.5GB'

=item Find packages with either C<pacman> or C<alpm> in their description:

 pacsift --description pacman --description alpm

=back
