=head1 NAME

pactrans, pacinstall, pacremove - install/remove alpm packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 pactrans   [options] <target>...
 pacinstall [options] <target>...
 pacremove  [options] <target>...
 pactrans   (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Install/remove alpm packages.  The B<pacinstall> and B<pacremove> aliases
are provided as a convenience, differing only in their default interpretation
of I<targets>.  Otherwise, they are identical.

If F<stdin> is not connected to a terminal, I<pkgspec>s to install/remove will
be read from F<stdin>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Operations

Operation options affect the interpretation of all targets following them until
another operation option is encountered.

=over

=item B<--spec> (B<pactrans> default)

Interpret following targets as I<pkgspec>s.  If a I<pkgspec> indicates
a package file or a repository package, it will be installed.  If it indicates
a package in the local database, it will be removed.  See L<PKGSPEC> for
details on the format.

=item B<--install> (B<pacinstall> default)

Interpret following targets as packages to be installed from a repository.  If
only the package name is provided repositories will be searched in the order
they are declared.

=item B<--remove> (B<pacremove> default)

Interpret following targets as package names to be uninstalled.

=item B<--file>

Interpret following targets as paths to package files to be installed.

=item B<--sysupgrade>

Upgrade installed packages.

=back

=head2 Configuration Options

=over

=item B<--cachedir>=F<path>

Set an alternate cache directory path.

=item B<--config>=F<path>

Set an alternate configuration file path.

=item B<--dbext>=I<extension>

Set an alternate sync database extension.

=item B<--dbpath>=F<path>

Set an alternate database path.

=item B<--logfile>=F<path>

Set an alternate log file path.

=item B<--root>=F<path>

Set an alternate installation root.

=item B<--sysroot>=F<path>

Set an alternate system root.  See L<pacutils-sysroot(7)>.

=item B<--null>[=I<sep>]

Set an alternate separator for values parsed from F<stdin>.  By default
a newline C<\n> is used as the separator.  If B<--null> is used without
specifying I<sep> C<NUL> will be used.

=item B<--debug>

Display additional debugging information.

=item B<--print-only>

Display the what the transaction would do and exit.

=item B<--no-confirm>

Assume default responses to all prompts.

=item B<--no-timeout>

Disable low-speed timeouts for downloads.

=item B<--help>

Display usage information and exit.

=item B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=back

=head2 Transaction Options

=over

=item B<--dbsync>

Update sync databases before performing the transaction.

=item B<--dbonly>

Make the changes to the database without actually extracting or removing any
packages.

=item B<--nodeps>

Ignore dependency versions.  Pass twice to ignore dependency checks altogether.

=item B<--no-scriptlet>

Do not run package install scripts.

=item B<--no-hooks>

Do not run transaction hooks.

=back

=head2 Sysupgrade Options

=over

=item B<--ignore-pkg>=I<package>

Ignore upgrades for package I<package>.  I<package> may be a shell-style glob
pattern.

=item B<--ignore-group>=I<group>

Ignore upgrades for any packages in group I<group>.  I<group> may be
a shell-style glob pattern.

=back

=head2 B<--install>/B<--file> Options

=over

=item B<--as-deps>

Mark all installed packages as dependencies.

=item B<--as-explicit>

Mark all installed packages as explicitly installed.

=item B<--download-only>

Download packages without actually installing them.

=back

=head2 B<--remove> Options

=over

=item B<--cascade>

Uninstall all installed packages that depend on a package being uninstalled.

=item B<--no-backup>

Do not save F<.pacsave> backups.

=item B<--recursive>

Uninstall any dependencies of packages being removed that are not required by
any other packages.

=item B<--unneeded>

Do not uninstall any packages required by an installed package.

=back

=head2 Prompt Disposition Options

=over

=item B<--resolve-conflicts>=I<method>

Select a method to use for resolving conflicts.  Possible values for I<method>
are:

=over

=item C<prompt>

Prompt the user to remove the installed conflicting package.

=item C<none>

Do not remove any conflicting packages.

=item C<all>

Remove any conflicting packages.

=item C<provided>

Remove a conflicting package if the new package provides it.

=item C<depends>

Remove a conflicting package if it was installed as a dependency.

=item C<provided-depends>

Remove a conflicting package if it was installed as a dependency and the new
package provides it.

=back

=item B<--resolve-replacements>=I<method>

Select a method to use for resolving replacements.  Possible values for
I<method> are:

=over

=item C<prompt>

Prompt the user to replace the package.

=item C<none>

Do not replace any packages.

=item C<all>

Perform all available package replacements.

=item C<provided>

Perform replacements where the new package provides the old one.

=item C<depends>

Perform replacements where the old package was installed as a dependency.

=item C<provided-depends>

Perform replacements where the old package was installed as a dependency and
the new package provides the old one.

=back

=item B<--install-ignored-packages>=I<prompt|yes|no>

Set the disposition for prompts to install ignored packages.

=item B<--delete-corrupt-files>=I<prompt|yes|no>

Set the disposition for prompts to delete corrupt package.

=item B<--use-first-provider>=I<prompt|yes|no>

Set the disposition for prompts to select a provider.  If set to C<yes>, the
first available provider will be selected.

=item B<--skip-unresolvable>=I<prompt|yes|no>

Set the disposition for prompts to skip packages with unresolvable
dependencies.

=item B<--import-pgp-keys>=I<prompt|yes|no>

Set the disposition for prompts to import missing PGP keys.

=item B<--yolo>

Set all prompt disposition options to their C<all> or C<yes> value and set
B<--no-confirm>.

=back

NOTE: regardless of the disposition options chosen, all dependencies must still
be satisfied in order for the transaction to succeed unless B<--nodeps> is used
as well.

=head1 PKGSPEC

A I<pkgspec> is a string that can identify an individual package.  Accepted
formats are:

=over

=item <repository>/<package>

 core/pacman
 local/pacman

=item <proto>://<path/to/package/file>

 file:///var/cache/pacman/pkg/pacman-4.1.0-1-x86_64.pkg.tar.xz

=back


=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item Replace I<foo> with I<bar>

 pactrans local/foo baz/bar

Or, if I<bar>'s repository is unknown:

 pacinstall bar --remove foo

=item Install I<foo> and I<bar>:

 pactrans --install foo bar

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

B<pactrans> determines whether or not to read I<pkgspec>s from F<stdin> based
on a naive check using L<isatty(3)>.  If B<pactrans> is called in an
environment, such as a shell function or script being used in a pipe, where
F<stdin> is not connected to a terminal but does not contain I<pkgspec>s to
install/remove, B<pactrans> should be called with F<stdin> closed.  For
POSIX-compatible shells, this can be done with C<< <&- >>.
