=head1 NAME

mGarbageCollector.c - track and free allocated resources

=head1 SYNOPSIS

mGargageCollector.c is a lightweight tool for tracking and freeing allocated
resources.  Its primary intended use is in test suites, where it greatly
simplifies allocating resources during setup.  A failure callback function can
be used to easily detect and indicate setup failures without having to manually
check every call.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Types

=over

=item typedef void (mgc_fn_free_t) (void*);

=item typedef void (mgc_fn_fail_t) (void*);

=item typedef struct mgc_t mgc_t;

=back

=head2 Functions

=over

=item mpp_t *mgc_new(mgc_fn_fail_t failfn, void *failctx);

Create and return a new garbage collection object.  If C<failfn> is not
C<NULL>, it will be called with C<failctx> as its sole argument on any internal
error or if C<mgc_add> is called with a C<NULL> pointer.  This is
primarily intended for programs, such as tests, that need to cleanup and
immediately exit on failure.

=item void *mgc_add(mgc_t *mgc, void *ptr, mgc_fn_free_t* fn);

Append an item to C<mgc> with an associated free function.  If C<mgc> has an
associated fail function and C<ptr> is C<NULL>, the fail function will be
called.  Otherwise, if C<ptr> is C<NULL>, it will be discarded and C<fn> will
not be called on cleanup.

=item mgc_fn_free_t *mgc_remove_item(mgc_t *mgc, void *ptr);

Search C<mgc> for C<ptr> and remove it without freeing it.  The associated free
function is returned if the C<ptr> is found, else C<NULL> is returned.

=item void mgc_free_item(mgc_t *mgc, void *ptr);

Immediately free C<ptr> using its associated free function.

=item void mgc_clear(mgc_t *mgc);

Free all items associated with C<mgc> without freeing C<mgc> itself.

=item void mgc_free(mgc_t *mgc);

Clear and free C<mgc>.

=back

=head3 Helpers

Each of these functions behaves the same as its standard counterpart without
the C<mgc_> prefix or leading C<mgc_t> argument except that the result is
automatically tracked by C<mgc> and may cause C<failfn> to be called if one was
used.

=over

=item void *mgc_malloc(mgc_t *mgc, size_t size);

=item void *mgc_calloc(mgc_t *mgc, size_t nelem, size_t elsize);

=item void *mgc_realloc_ptr(mgc_t *mgc, void *ptr, size_t size);

=item char *mgc_strdup(mgc_t *mgc, const char *s);

=item char *mgc_strndup(mgc_t *mgc, const char *s, size_t size);

=item char *mgc_vasprintf(mgc_t *mgc, const char *restrict fmt, va_list ap);

=item char *mgc_asprintf(mgc_t *mgc, const char *restrict fmt, ...);

=item int mgc_openat(mgc_t *mgc, int fd, const char *path, int oflag, ...);

=item int mgc_open(mgc_t *mgc, const char *path, int oflag, ...);

=item FILE *mgc_fopen(mgc_t *mgc, const char *restrict pathname, const char *restrict mode);

=item FILE *mgc_fdopen(mgc_t *mgc, int fildes, const char *mode);

=item FILE *mgc_fmemopen(mgc_t *mgc, void *restrict buf, size_t size, const char *mode);

=item FILE *mgc_open_memstream(mgc_t *mgc, char **ptr, size_t *sizeloc);

=item void mgc_close(void *fdp);

C<close> wrapper that takes a pointer to a C<malloc>d file descriptor to close
and retries on C<EINTR>.

=item void mgc_fclose(void *stream);

C<fclose> wrapper that retries in C<EINTR>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

 mgc_t *mgc = NULL;

 void cleanup(void) {
     mp_free(mgc);
 }

 void die(void *unused) {
     perror("setup failed");
     cleanup();
     exit(EXIT_FAIL);
 }

 int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
     mgc = mgc_new(die, NULL);

     char *str = mgc_strdup("foobar");
     /* str is guaranteed to be valid */
     assert(strcmp("foobar", str) == 0);

     cleanup();
     return 0;
 }

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2020 Andrew Gregory <andrew.gregory.8@gmail.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Project URL: L<http://github.com/andrewgregory/mGarbageCollector.c>
